Hey everyone. In this video, I'm going
to make my top recommendations for 2026
when it comes to purchasing brain
devices to improve the health of your
brain. We'll take a look at the
categories of improving your focus,
meditation, sleep, anxiety, brain health
longevity, sports training, and brain
computer interface development. And I
have to tell you, making this annual
best brain devices video is becoming
more and more difficult. I had a lot of
hard decisions to make this year about
what to recommend for each category
because truly this year of 2026 just
feels very different from previous
years. This brain training marketplace
used to be wide open with each company
and their device having their own lane.
There was a best one for focus, for
meditation or for access to software
development kits for brain computer
interface development. But as this field
evolves, the competition is absolutely
heating up and the brain devices are
becoming more and more capable. As a
result, the lines between these
different categories are starting to
blur as multiple devices offer multiple
capabilities, and they start crossing
over into each other's cognitive
training and brain performance tracking
lanes. So, we'll carefully take a look
at each category, and I'll tell you
what's going on in each. And at the end,
we're going to take a look at two
devices coming out in 2026 that are
absolutely going head-to-head in what
I'm calling the 2026 brain tech face off
to cross over into mainstream use for
brain tracking. And this year, the
battle for your brain isn't science
fiction anymore. It's literally
happening right now. So, let's get into
it. Now, when people ask me, Dr. Cody,
what's the best device to use for
training my focus? I used to have a
pretty straightforward answer. Maybe
back in 2022, I would say, "Hey, just go
with the Mendy headband. It measures
blood flow to your frontal lobe. It has
this game where you get this ball to
climb higher as you increase the blood
flow to your frontal lobe and our
central executive network to train your
focus. We have peer-reviewed research
that shows this can be effective for
your focus training, and I think you'll
get significant value out of it." But
then year 2025 came along and now
everything's changed because now we have
the Muse Athena which also has
continuous FNER's frontal lobe blood
flow tracking for focus training. We've
also got Nurable which tracks your focus
in discrete and very easy to use
headphones. And in addition, we have
more and more evidence that the Vite red
light therapy products also help
increase blood flow and performance of
your attention circuitry. So you can see
this question of which device should I
get to train my focus has gotten very
complicated very quickly as these new
products have come to market in 2025.
Now as far as the Mendy versus Muse
FNir's focus games go I actually do like
the Mendy game better. They've had more
time to workout glitches and the
software when it comes to using
continuous fne to increase the blood
flow to your frontal lobe in the form of
focus training. Mindy's added new skins.
Their app looks really well put together
and hardly ever causes me issues. In
contrast, Muse Athena just released
their flying owl game which to be honest
sometimes crashes on me and I've had
clients talk about it crashing on them
as well. So, there are some kinks that
Muse needs to work out of the app to get
that focus game performing better. Also,
I will note that Mendy continues to sell
their devices without a monthly
subscription whereas Muse has a monthly
subscription. The first year is included
in the price of the device and then you
have to continue paying a subscription
afterwards. And the Muse Athena is about
30% more expensive than Mendy at the
time of this recording. But Muse
honestly has a lot more to offer than
the FNER's focus training game. They
have EEG brain health measurements like
peak alpha and alpha recharge. They're
introducing a new AI brain health coach
that I just looked at today and looks
really awesome to play around with. I'll
have to do more episodes on that. And
they have a digital sleeping pill that
helps you get to sleep and tracks your
sleep in metrics that I've found more
effective for sleep tracking than Aura
or Whoop. And of course the core of the
Muse experience is that they have an EEG
neuro feedback mindfulness meditation
exercise which personally for me
actually is a better training of
attention through mindfulness training
than doing the Ferris focus training in
either the Muse Athena or the Mendy
exercise. Now, that's up for debate, but
I think what is not up for debate is
that Muse just has a lot more to offer
than Mindy at this point. Not only do
they have the FNER training, but they
have all the other features that I
talked about. And in addition, there are
a lot of thirdparty apps that use Muse
as well. There is the mind monitor
program where you can record your raw
brainwave patterns and do experiments
with. And there's also the mind lift
platform that I use exclusively in my
coaching program to do sequential
quantitative EEG measurements and neuro
feedback training along with red light
therapy. So if you want to spend a
little extra money to get the best
package for training your focus and use
it at home on your own time, I would go
with the Muse just because of how much
it has to offer. I'm just not aware of
any thirdparty companies that are
supporting Mendy as an ecosystem like
you will find with the Muse headband.
And like I said, if you want to enhance
the effects of the muse even further,
take a look at adding a Vite red light
therapy product that will increase the
ATP production of your neurons and
increase blood flow for better sustained
focus along with your focus training
with the Muse headband. And if you want
to take things even a step further,
check out the Mind Lift platform, which
works exclusively with the Muse Headband
and recently added rapid assessment
brain mapping capabilities to their
platform. In my coaching program, we are
constantly referring to these brain maps
because they've proved to be extremely
useful in designing red light therapy
protocols for brain health longevity.
Now, that's my recommendation as far as
focus training goes. But if you're
someone that wants to use neurochnology
at work and track your productivity,
then go with Nurible. The Nurable
platform is the only one that you are
actually going to be able to use at work
without people looking at you weird
because you've got a Muse headband on
your head. Because they're a pair of
headphones, no one even knows that
you're using neurochnology. And you can
track your work progress and
productivity. It has a lot of other
metrics too to offer in the brain health
reports that come every week. And none
of these other platforms are really
designed to track your attention with
your eyes open as you work like
Norurable is. Now, Norurable has talked
about putting some neuro feedback games
into their app, which I'm sure will be
available soon. But I will say that
Norble for now is more of a focus
tracker. It will give you great metrics
on your brain age and other performance
metrics. But as far as focus training
goes, in my opinion, the best
combination right now on the market is
what we're doing with Muse, Mind Lift,
and Red Light Therapy, which I have
chosen for my own programs. So number
one recommendation in this category is
Amuse Athena for training at home or
Nurible for use at work. And in addition
for both of those platforms, I do
recommend supplementing your brain
training with the red light therapy from
Vite. Now let's talk about meditation.
When it comes to meditation, we largely
have two front runners that I consider
the leaders in this marketplace. We have
the Muse and the Sensei. Both of these
devices use audio soundscapes that
change based on your brain waves and
guide you into different states of mind,
whether that be engaged attention or
deep relaxation depending on the
setting. Now, Sensei is about three
times more expensive than the Muse. To
justify this, it does have a lot of
things that the Muse headband does not.
It has binaural beats. It has
photobiomodulation built into the
headset. and it has ERP reaction time
testing which can be a great measurement
of your cognitive health. Now, Muse has
none of those three yet. When it comes
to Sensei, I do feel that the Beats
combined with photobiomodulation
gets you more of a state change during
the sessions within its app. I think
that combining Muse with Vite has a
comparable state change, which I enjoy
and use with my clients. There's been a
lot of debate this year about red light
therapy when it comes to the brain and
its role in photobiomodulation.
Basically, these LEDs need to be
powerful enough to get through the skull
and actually have real life changes on
the brain tissue below. Now, Sensei does
list these LEDs at about 300 m, which in
theory is comparable to what Vite
products offer. I do think that the
Sensei LEDs are much much smaller than
what you find in the Vite products. So,
I have to wonder how much brain tissue
is actually getting irradiated by the
red light when you compare Sensei to
Vite. Now, I love that feature from
Sensei where they have ERP reaction time
testing and other brain measurement
metrics to monitor your practice. What I
don't like as a YouTube creator and as a
coach is the lack of flexibility on the
platform. I, for example, wanted to do
ERP experiments with cold plunge or
methylene blue or whatever else
biohacking methods I could get my hands
on, but they didn't want me doing that
outside of the training protocols. Now,
from their perspective, I totally
understand that makes sense that they
want you to do their predefined
protocols so they can properly map and
record the improvements on the platform
when it comes to your brain health. That
way they can confidently say that their
training protocols are improving your
brain health and they can report that on
their website and in the media. And they
have been able to show quite a bit of
data that their brain and training
system does improve performance in
several key areas. But to be honest, for
myself in making YouTube videos, but
also coaching clients, I want to have
more flexibility. I want to do different
biohacking experiments like taking
creatine or doing cold plunge and seeing
how that affects the performance of
myself and my clients and I just haven't
been able to do that with Sensei in any
way comparable that I can do with the
Muse platform using mind lift and red
light therapy through Vite. As a
practitioner, getting those sequential
QEG maps with mind lift and then
creating custom neuro feedback protocols
and red light therapy protocols allows
me to get a custom fit for all my
clients. And Sensei is more boxed into
their concrete training protocols. So
maybe if you're just training on your
own, Sensei would be a better option
than the Muse Vite combination. But if
you're working with a coach such as
myself, I prefer to do the Muse Vite
combination over Sensei. So, when I
consider the price point and the
flexibility for my clients, I'm
recommending the Muse Vite combination
over Sensei at this point, especially if
you want to work specifically with me in
my programs or work with other Mind Lift
providers. And to be clear, we are using
the Muse headband in my training
programs and not Sensei. The Sensei is
great. It's highowered and I think that
there's going to be a lot of value
there, especially when they publish
their clinical brain age reference base
that should be in the professional
package soon. But right now, myself and
my clients are getting a lot more
flexibility using the Muse Headband. And
when it comes to using Mind Lift with
the Muse Headband to get brain maps in
which you are compared to other people
in your own age cohort, we can really
see where we can make the improvements
on your brain and custom fit a training
protocol as such. And the take-home
point there is that I can create custom
Vite red light therapy protocols that
result in awesome meditation sessions
while using the Muse headband. So
ultimately for meditation I'm
recommending the Muse headband. Now when
it comes to improving and tracking your
sleep this space has also just exploded.
Now we have devices like Somni Muse
Elammind friends. All these devices are
promising getting to sleep faster,
staying asleep deeper and having better
quality sleep so that you improve your
energy levels the next day. But to be
honest, this is where I've had some
mixed experiences. I personally don't
suffer from insomnia. I'm pretty good at
just shutting down and getting to sleep
pretty quickly. I work pretty hard
during the day and I am just exhausted
at night and I tend to get my 7 to 8
hours every night. That being said, I
have tested a lot of these headbands and
I have some opinions on them. As far as
friends go, I tried their initial device
and it was very rubbery. It came too far
off my forehead and was not comfortable
to wear at night. This was about a year
and a half ago, so they might have made
some improvements by now. I'll leave it
at that. What I'm going to focus on in
this video is the comparison between
Somni and the Muse. The Muse has been my
longtime companion here on this channel.
I've tried the digital sleeping pill
quite a bit. Those soundscapes are
really nice and help you get to sleep
with the waves and gentle rain patterns.
They quiet down as you fall asleep, and
for some people, they really swear by
this that it helps them get to sleep.
For me, it worked okay. I don't think I
really needed it to get to sleep. And to
be honest, when it comes to the Muse
headband, I worry a lot about the
sensors behind my ears. I like to sleep
on my side and on my stomach. When you
are getting your head into the pillow,
it moves that headband around quite a
bit. And often times I don't want to
cinch it so tight that it just feels
like I've got something on my head all
night. I think that they've improved the
breathability a bit with the Athena. It
doesn't make me sweat, but it's still a
little hot around my head whenever I'm
testing Muse sleep tracking. Just at the
end of the day, I just don't like things
on my head when I'm trying to sleep.
I've run a bunch of experiments. I've
probably recorded months worth of sleep
data using the Muse headband. But at the
end of the day, I'm not driven to just
want to wear it every night. It's cool
that it can get better sleep data than
Aura or Whoop. I think there's a lot of
utility there. I think that if I had
insomnia, I'd be a lot more serious
about this. But the incentive, the pain
point for me isn't quite there. Now,
that being said, Somni reached out to me
and I thought, okay, let's just give
another sleep band a try. You know, I'm
running this channel. I don't like
wearing things on my head. I'm running
this channel on neuroch. Sleep is a huge
area for neuroch right now, and I need
to be testing every device that comes
out just so I know what's going on. So,
I was skeptical, especially when I
learned that their primary modality for
getting you to sleep is more direct
electrical stimulation techniques, which
you have to clip this sticky into the
front module. So, you've got a
maintenance component there, and then
I've had bad luck with direct electrical
stimulation where it really tingles and
feels uncomfortable on my skin at times,
but that's not Somni. That's not what
I've experienced with this device. The
electrical stimulation is very mild. I
barely feel it. I've worn it for about a
week now every night and I've really
been falling asleep very quickly using
this Somni headband. And as far as
wearing it at night goes, this is
actually a lot easier to wear than the
Muse headband at night because they have
this Velcro strap that allows you to get
it relatively snug around your head and
you the biggest thing is that you don't
have to worry about the behind the ear
sensors. That was the biggest issue with
Muse. It says, "Hey, you know, you don't
have a good connection when you are
laying there and you're supposed to have
these sensors behind your ears." This
has very minimal sensors on the front.
So, I don't find myself worrying about
the sleep data as much. Now, it might
not be getting as good sleep data as the
Muse headband, but it is tracking your
sleep and giving you more and more data
as you wear it more and more nights. And
I think that the material breathes a
little bit better than the Muse. And
there's a larger surface area. So
instead of feeling like you have this
band around your head like I do with the
Muse headband, it feels more like you're
just wearing like a hat or something. I
don't know how else to describe it, it
just feels more comfortable at sleep and
I don't worry about it as much. And
because it's got the little stickies on
the front, it doesn't move around as
much. And perhaps that was an unforeseen
benefit when they designed this headband
is that because you have that stickiness
in the front for the direct electrical
stimulation, it doesn't move around as
much. It stays in place. So, as I'm
flipping from on my back to my side or
on my chest, it really stays in place
very well. So, all that being said, I'm
leaning more towards Somni. If you've
got sleep issues and you want to try one
of these sleep headbands, this is the
best one that I've experienced so far.
I'm really excited to get the month-long
data pattern so that I can present that
here on the channel. And uh yeah,
genuinely impressed by the Omni. If you
ask me, I would still get the Muse
headband because I'm more interested in
focus and meditation training. But if
your primary aim is to help with your
sleep, go with the Somni. But I will say
in my coaching program, we've had people
with sleep issues. And what's great
about the Vite Muse combination is that
if you have a Neuropro 2 from Vite, we
can customize the red light therapy
protocol that you want to use before bed
to help you get to sleep better based on
your brain maps. And we've had some
really great success with that. So if
you have sleep problems and you want to
do the coaching program with me, get
Muse and Neuropro 2 Vite combination so
that we can program that for you. Now
let's talk about brain health longevity
and my recommendations there as far as
devices go. When I'm talking about brain
longevity, I'm referring to maintaining
our energy, confidence, and clear
thinking well into our later years.
First of all, there is a drop in
cellular energy of our neurons called
ATP, which makes it more difficult to
perform at higher levels mentally for
longer periods of time when you age.
There's also a buildup of metabolic
waste products over the course of our
lifetimes that turns into plaques and
tangles and generally slows down our
ability to perform at high levels.
There's also a gradual decline in blood
flow to key brain regions. Now, two
devices on the consumer market that are
attempting to address these brain
changes are Vite and Neurovvisor.
Neurovvisor uses rhythmic flickering
light called strooscopic light
stimulation through the eyes with your
eyes closed. And there's some evidence
that flickering lights at 40
oscillations per second from MIT studies
that show improvement in Alzheimer's
symptoms in rat models. MIT is also
currently doing human trials. Now,
activation of our innate ability to
clear out metabolic waste by using 40
herz stimulation is a very exciting
concept, but I have to say that
neurovvisor itself has not conducted any
randomized control trials. There's a lot
of factors that can go into if 40 Hz is
beneficial for your brain health to
include wavelength of light and many
other factors, which is why it's
important to actually use the device
that's used in randomized control
trials. So although it is possible that
Neurovvisor's 40 Herz stimulation would
have similar effects, we can't say that
for sure. At this point, I do have to
say that Neurovvisor is more about
sensory experience and state change
rather than proven long-term outcomes.
In contrast, Vite has built a much
deeper evidence base over the years.
Their near infrared light penetrates
several centimeters into brain tissue
through the skull and behind the nose.
There's really good evidence that it
increases ATP production, improves blood
flow, and supports the brain's
glimpmphatic system to clear out
metabolic byproducts. They've done
randomized control trials through third
parties. It's all published on their
website. In studies on mild cognitive
impairment, their infrared light pulsed
at 40 hertz has actually shown
measurable improvements in areas of
executive function, connectivity, and
even improvements in theamic volume on
MRI for the people that use the device.
So this is actually using the device
that's being advertised on the website
in randomized control trials and with
resultant subjective changes,
improvements in performance and
structural changes in the brain that
have been measured with gold standard
medical grade technology. So here's how
I look at these two devices in terms of
brain health longevity. If you want a
visually rich sensory meditation
experience, check out the Neurovvisor.
But if your priority is evidence-based
brain health longevity, definitely go
with Vlight's red light therapy systems.
They're the ones that are carrying the
most scientific weight at this point. If
you want a deeper dive into the science
of how these devices are actually
working to slow brain aging, I'm doing a
full video on brain health longevity
with the comparison between Neurovvisor
and Vite next week. So, be sure to
subscribe and stay tuned for that
episode. Let's talk about anxiety. One
of the front runners in this space has
been Pulto with their Vegas stimulator.
Now, when it comes to vag nerve
stimulation, I've had some more mixed
results. A lot of this is direct
electrical stimulation, and if I had the
settings too high, my neck muscles
spasm. I also don't like to have to use
the gel that comes with these things. In
my opinion, for mild anxiety, develop a
meditation practice with the Muse
headband. I think that alone can make a
big difference. But for people with
full-blown anxiety disorders, the kind
that you just feel in your chest and you
have all these symptoms and subjective
symptoms and you have all these physical
symptoms and you need more biological
support, you can try the Puletto. A lot
of people feel that it does downshift
your nervous system into rest and relax
mode. I just think that it leaves a bit
of a mess on my neck from the gel that
you have to use. And that's why I was
really excited to see the Vite Vegas,
which was a totally different
experience. It uses red light therapy on
your vag nerve to stimulate it. So, it's
a lot less messy in my opinion. And I
think that it also can be helpful for
treating your anxiety. So, take a look
at Vite Vegas or Pulto for anxiety. Now,
in terms of training your sports
performance, we have a lot of
interesting things that are happening,
but I think that the company that's
really on the edge of making a big
breakthrough right now is Pyson. They're
doing reaction time and impulse control
testing from your wrist. They've been
working a lot with baseball teams and
they recently were mentioned on Andrew
Huberman's podcast and I think that's a
good sign that mainstream science is
really starting to pay attention to what
they're doing. I've tested a few
prototypes and I think that the
potential is quite massive for athletes,
but even gamers or anyone else that's
interested in measuring their cognitive
performance from their wrist. I think
2026 should be the year that Python goes
really wide and I'm excited to see what
they do next. Now, let's talk about
brain computer interface development.
This is still coming along. We're
talking about sending your thoughts or
actions to AI models through your
thoughts. As far as relatively
affordable software development kits
with GitHub repositories and access to
the people that own the company, I think
that Neurosity is still leading the
charge there. Their software development
kit now includes a direct interface with
ChatgPT. Last year, I sort of put
together an experiment where I thought
of an image and ChatGpt drew it for me.
Now, that was based on the command when
I thought of biting the lemon, it drew a
dragon. So, it was a bit of a stretch,
but this stuff is coming along. I should
note that Nurible is opening up their
software development kit, so that's an
option, too. If you're looking at more
of the high-end models, OpenBCI launched
their Gala Habset for Advanced Research
Labs. Cognition just announced a
partnership with Apple Vision Pro and
Colonel continues to publish incredible
clinical data on brain diagnostics and
open water is now moving into ultrasound
based stroke detection. So on the high
end there's a lot going on with brain
computer interface technologies but
they're definitely more expensive than
the average consumer can afford which
puts either neural or neurosity within
batting range if you are a soloreneur or
a programmer that wants to get involved
with brain computer interface
technologies. At this point, a lot of
people are considering wristbased brain
computer interface devices, especially
since Meta just came out with their
Orion with the Orion wristband. If
you're really interested in this area,
you can check out Mudra, which you can
buy online right now, and has
gesture-based brain computer interface
wearable abilities. It can detect subtle
neural and muscular changes from your
wrist and allow you to control a digital
interface with small finger movements.
This is a stepping stone towards what
Meta is developing with their Orion
project. If you want to start
experimenting with this technology, they
have a software development kit and you
can get involved with it right now. And
now the big face off for 2026. We are
looking at the faceoff between Nurible
and Emotive. So Nurible just announced
the new MW75LTS
which are lighter and more affordable,
but they still run on the same advanced
focus tracking algorithms of the MW75s.
So, these are going to be lighter and
cheaper, and their daily brain reports
are going to show you where your
concentration is best during the day.
You can also test how different
lifestyle changes affect your mental
stamina and your other brain health
metrics. I've used the MW75s for several
months now, and it's really cool to see
how these different biohacking
techniques affect your focus or where
your most optimal working time is during
the day. Now, the big face off for 2026
is that Emotive is releasing earbuds
that are aiming at reporting the same
thing. These are called MW20s. They're
small and discreet, and they're built
for people that want EEG insights into
how their brain is functioning during
the day. They'll be releasing these in
spring 2026, and I'm really curious to
see how their focus metrics stack up
against Nurbables. I think some people
will love the minimalist feel of the
Emotive MW20s, but I, in my opinion,
right now, I just love the MW75s from
Nurible. Not only do they track my
brain, but they've got great sound
quality and I can do two-way calls with
them. So, I literally use them every
day. Other brain health trackers that
I've been watching that may be on the
horizon for 2027 include AWear and
Atlas. These are both EEG wearables that
apparently go behind your ear. These
companies are gathering momentum right
now and could be the next type of form
factor that we really see come into the
marketplace as a status symbol.
Honestly, 2026 is just overwhelming. I
couldn't cover everything. It's really a
year where these categories are starting
to merge and these devices are becoming
more and more capable. So, the best that
I can do is just keep testing them, but
also I I do have my elbows in the mud
when it comes to working with clients.
And I've spoke several times in this
video about what works best for my
platform. And if you want a deep dive
into that and see how I'm combining
these tools to make measurable brain
transformations in my clients,
everything from focus to improved energy
to better sleep. Check out my sharper
everyday program. This is the system
that I use with my clients to track
their brain metrics and build habits
that really transform their lives. In
this program, you're going to learn how
I integrate Muse Mind Lift and Vite
training protocols and how I use that
same stack on myself to improve my
focus, clarity, and drive. Or if you
just want to stay on YouTube for now and
check out what gear I use in these
coaching programs, check out this video
and I'll see you on the other